Now let's circle around and review the benefits of alignment.
Your team is working on the right priorities,
that is a feel good experience to know you're not just
doing busy work and your work matters.
Next, your team is helping the business achieve its maximum potential.
Again,
a great feeling that you and your team are
contributing to the success of the company.
Your team will feel connected to the business.
Sometimes IT feels they are not appreciated as they should be by the business.
If you can tie everything you do to the business,
not only will your team feel connected,
others in the company will see the connection and the
contributions your team is making, that's good for you and your team's career.
This also improves trust and understanding between
the business and IT personnel.
Over the long term,
your success is dependent upon positive relationships and trust is the
critical component on enhancing business relationships.
The moment you are not trusted by an individual or team,
or senior management for that matter,
your chances for success are diminished dramatically.
Therefore, showing the business that you are listening,
supporting and aligning their requirements builds a treasure trove of trust.
This trust bank, if you will,
may be leveraged for growing your team or enabling other
business opportunities in your company.
Okay, now let's summarize this module.
Now let's summarize this module.
Why align IT to the business?
Remember according to Info-Tech Research 47% of business leaders
feel that business goals are unsupported by IT.
What this may mean is that the business may change the
leaders of IT or maybe outsource IT,
and that's if we look at it from an IT centric viewpoint.
But from a business standpoint, the business just suffers.
Understanding alignment.
Alignment means that IT effectively aligns all of its work directly
to business goals to achieve business objectives.
This results in improved business outcomes that produce business value.
Aligning IT team goals to business goals.
Now in this section we went through a complete example from a business goal to
an IT project task or activity in a very visible format,
easy for the business to see, read, and understand,
and of course, easy for your team too as well.
Defining priorities, we discussed sources of priorities,
that is where they can come from,
and the quality of the priority from vague to very detailed.
Lastly, setting priorities.
Based on your interpretation of the priority,
from your customers and users,
you could use an activity card and a priority grid to easily,
quickly,
and visually layout priorities and color code statuses to
make it easy for the business to see, read,
and understand.
If you could have at least one takeaway from this module,
everything we did is for the business.
In your new role as an IT manager,
it's all about helping the business be successful.
So maybe before in a software engineering role,
you were looking more into technology,
now you're looking out towards the business.
It's a different viewpoint and a different mindset.
And if you do, it will only follow that your career with be successful as well.
Now let's see how we can better communicate and keep our customers happy in the next module.